1985 was a year in the 20th century. It was present day to Marty McFly before he transported back to 1955, and it was his intended destination in which to return.
By 1985, Hill Valley had experienced growth in its surrounding neighborhoods and suburbs. Downtown was less vibrant as commercial interests moved out around the Twin Pines Mall area, on the former site of Twin Pines Ranch, as well as former residential areas of town (see John F. Kennedy Drive). A community known as Hilldale was beginning construction just east of the Eastwood Ravine.
By 1985, there was an increase in civil rights, cultural upheaval and usage of electronic computing.
After old Biff Tannen disrupted history by traveling back in time from 2015 in Dr. Emmett Brown's stolen DeLorean time machine to 1955 to give his younger self the Grays Sports Almanac, this year became the nightmarish ABC timeline 1985A.
New technology
In relation to 1955
Toyota Hilux 4x4
AMC Eagle
Color television
CRM-114 amplifier
DeLorean DMC-12
Hair dryer
JVC camcorder
Walkman
Digital watch
Pepsi Free
Tab
Chevrolet Nova
Radiation suit
Skateboard
Versateller
Video game
Wild Gunman
New locations
Burger King
Courthouse Square bus stop
Cupid's Adult Book Store
Department of Social Services (Hill Valley Courthouse)
Parking lot (Department of Social Services)
Hog Heaven
Hilldale
Hill Valley Speedway
The lake
Lou's Aerobic Center
Lyon Estates (1985)
Mayor Goldie Wilson election advertising
McFly residence (1985)
Oak Park Cemetery
Parker residence
Statler Toyota
Hog Heaven
Toys R Us
Twin Pines Mall
Fox Photo
J. C. Penney
Zales (Lone Pine Mall)
YMCA
New slang
All you got for me is light beer?
Bitchin'
Chicken
Far out!
Go ahead, make my day
Great Scott!
Heavy
Hi-yo Silver
Holy shit
How's it hanging?
You'd be home by now
The last thing you need is headaches
That one's a rerun
Events
Timeline 1
Friday, October 25 , 8:15 a.m.: Marty arrives at Doc's house, with the clocks saying 7:50. He plugs in his guitar.
Doc calls Marty and tells him that he and Einstein are away.
Jennifer and Marty are given slips for tardiness.
Marty fails the Battle of the Bands.
Marty witnesses Biff bully his father and is told the car is damaged. He is told by his sister that Jennifer tried to call him three times, with Lorraine, his mother, explaining that she never did what he was doing with George.
Marty accidentally falls asleep.
Saturday, October 26, 1:00 a.m.:
Doc calls Marty.
Marty arrives at the Twin Pines Mall with his camera.
Saturday, October 26, 1:15 a.m.:
Marty arrives at the Twin Pines Mall.
Saturday, October 26, 1:16 a.m.
Einstein arrives in the DeLorean.
Saturday, October 26, 1:20 a.m.
Marty and Doc put plutonium in the time machine.
Saturday, October 26, 1:30 a.m.
Doc is shot by Libyan terrorists.
Saturday, October 26, 1:35 a.m.
Marty arrives at November 5th, 1955 after accidentally going to 88 mph.
Saturday, October 26, 8:00 a.m.
Doc's dead body is found.
Monday, October 28
Doc's funeral is held with many making fun of him.
Timeline 2
Saturday, October 26, 1:36 a.m.: Marty McFly arrives from November 12th, 1955, 10:04 p.m., and witnesses Doc being shot again, and himself going back in time. He arrives and learns that Doc faked his death with a bulletproof vest after reading Marty's letter after November 12th, 1955.
Marty wakes up from his previous day, and sees Jennifer who he hasn't seen for 9 days.
Doc arrives and brings them back to the future.
Timeline 3
Saturday, October 26, 6:00 p.m.: Marty, Jennifer, Doc, and Einstein arrive from October 21, 2015 after saving Marty Jr.
Marty arrives at Lyon Estates, with him realizing that he was in the wrong house.
Marty discovers that his father, George, was killed on March 15, 1973.
Timeline 4
​​Thursday, June 13: Max Spielberg (director of Jaws 19), is born.
Saturday, October 12: Libyan terrorists steal plutonium from the local power plant, but it is dismissed by the FBI as a "simple clerical error".
Friday, October 25:
Dr. Emmett Brown asks Marty to meet him at Twin Pines Mall at 1:15 a.m. the next morning.
Marty fails his Battle of the Bands audition with his band, The Pinheads.
Lorraine McFly's brother, Joey Baines, fails to make parole again.
Saturday, October 26:
Originally planned as the date on which Marty and Jennifer were going camping at the lake; their time traveling adventures would ultimately cancel these plans.
From about 1:18 a.m. to 1:35 a.m., in the parking lot of the Twin Pines Mall, Doc demonstrates his new DeLorean time machine. His dog Einstein becomes the world's first time traveler at 1:20 a.m. The Libyans find, shoot and (seemingly) kill Doc. Marty flees in the DeLorean and accidentally departs for 1955 at 1:35 a.m.
At 1:24 a.m, Marty returns from his first trip to 1955, runs from Courthouse Square over to what is now the Lone Pine Mall, and discovers that Doc lived because he'd been warned by Marty in 1955 via a letter (which he had torn up, but later stuck back together) about the Libyans.
Marty wakes up in the morning and finds that the interior of his house has changed, and the lives of his family members have also improved, due to his altering the events of his mother and father's first meeting each other in 1955.
Doc travels to the future, then comes back at about 10 a.m. and takes Marty and Jennifer to 2015.
Sunday, October 27:
Marty arrives back in 1985 at 11 a.m. from 1885 and the DeLorean is destroyed after being hit by a locomotive. The ravine that the railroad bridge travels over is now called Eastwood Ravine instead of Clayton Ravine due to time-changing events that took place in 1885.
Marty originally races Douglas J. Needles and crashes into a Rolls-Royce, negatively affecting his future; but through his time-traveling adventures Marty has learned much and ultimately avoids the race, thus changing the future.
Doc, Clara and their sons arrive in the Jules Verne Train to visit Marty and Jennifer, before departing for times unknown.
October/November: George McFly's first novel, A Match Made in Space, is published. The cover alludes to young George, young Lorraine, and "Darth Vader" (Marty's anti-radiation suit, utilized as a costume in 1955).
Real world
Date Unknown: Back to the Future: The Story was released.
Date Unknown: Back to the Future Sticker Album was released.
Date Unknown: Back to the Future (Rainbow Read-Along Adventure) was released in the United Kingdom.
Date Unknown: Back to the Future Official Souvenir Magazine was released in both the United States and United Kingdom.
Saturday, July 6:https://www.imdb.com/title/tt3446814/ Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert review Back to the Future along with Red Sonja, Silverado and Mad Max- Beyond Thunderdome on At the Movies.
Thursday, October 3: Zuruck in die Zukunft, the German dubbed version of Back to the Future, was released in West Germany.
Friday, October 18: Ritorno al futuro, the Italian dubbed version of Back to the Future, was released.
Wednesday, October 23: Retour vers le futur, the French dubbed version of Back to the Future, was released.
Friday, December 6: Behazara La'Ateed, the Israeli version of Back to the Future, is released. (This is not dubbed, but in English with Hebrew subtitles.)
Saturday, December 7: Bakku tu za fyucha, the Japanese subtitled version of Back to the Future, is released.
Thursday, December 12: Huidao Weilai, the Chinese version of Back to the Future, is released.
AppearancesBack to the Future trilogyBack to the Future novelizationBack to the Future: The StoryBack to the Future Part II first draft screenplayParadox scriptBack to the Future Part IIBack to the Future Part II novelizationBack to the Future Part IIIBack to the Future Part III novelizationBack to the Future: The Classic Illustrated StorybookBack to the Future: The Musical''
Reference
es:1985
pl:1985
Category:Years